good afternoon I'm Travis Browne the
graphics and imaging evangelist at Apple
and it's my pleasure to welcome you to
session to 10 which is printing so what
we're going to be talking about in this
session is pretty much the culmination
of a lot of work that we've been hard
work that we'd be doing in the printing
system because we originally shipped Mac
os10 dotto we obviously got a lot of
feedback at the first WIBC three years
ago where developers wanted a system
that was far more open and far more
flexible even though we had planned long
term to build out a lot of these
developer features we heard loud and
clear that you guys wanted access to the
system now so last year we actually made
a pretty dramatic change we actually
took our printing system and swapped a
very significant portion of it to an
open source architecture called cups or
the comedy X printing system and this
new openness has given us a tremendous
new capabilities for both the users and
developers things like IPP based
printing for example and also an
expensive filter architecture that gives
developers an opportunity to refactor
many classes of applications such as
rips and output systems that can merely
be plugged into the cup sprint path and
what we've really focused on this year
for Panther is doing the fit and finish
work continuing how we're integrating
these pieces and then doing new
enhancements on top of the integration
so that's what we're going to focus on
the session it's my pleasure to invite
rich Blanchard the engineering manager
for the printing team to the stage to
take you to the presentation thank you 6
of Travis
I think Travis just gave my talk was
really good i am the engineering manager
for printing apple and i want to thank
all of you for coming to our 2003
printing update actually have a double
thank you for all of you who actually
attended last year last year there were
a lot of fireworks i had the dubious
pleasure of announcing that we were
changing 75% of the printing system and
listening to all of you sort of drop
your jaws in one smooth motion it was
very nice we replaced task of operating
system last year the whole back half
went away replaced it with open source
cuts with traffic explained along with
cups came a brand-new printer driver
architecture to sit next to the printer
driver are sure we had double the number
of printer driver architectures always a
good thing we rewrote our print center
application in Cocoa so that was a
brand-new rewrite of our major you I
piece that we present to the user user
so it was very exciting there was a lot
of concerns from the developers that we
were changing so much for Jaguar but we
were able to do it I was very happy and
after the talk last year so in about two
weeks having this nightmare that I would
have to come back this year sit back in
front of you again and my best Yogi
Berra voice to explain how is changing
the other 75% of the princess in this
year the luckily we don't have to do
that this year again is trying to
explain we're just evolving what we
change last room we're taking some cups
features that we didn't have you I for
and we're putting new UI on top of it
print center is going to evolve a little
bit internally it's not changing but
you'll see desktop printers back again
in Panther wow totally there was the
reason we're going to it and we're
working on the printer driver
architecture that comes with cups to
make that as powerful as the existing
printer architecture we had before cups
but primarily we've been focusing on PDF
you've gone to all the sessions this
conference you've heard again and again
especially in the graphic sessions PDF
is what Mac os10 is all about Mac extend
is built on top of quartz quartz itself
built on top of a PDF imaging model a
PDF imaging model can import and export
PDF documents for your application if
you want your application to really do
well on Mac OS 10 you have to embrace
courts and that means leaving behind
some api's are probably very comfortable
it means using courts instead of quick
draw and for printing it means using the
PDF training path instead of our
laserwriter eight legacy frame path now
that's actually a dirty little secret we
have in some of you
not know that there are actually two
ways to print inside of Mac os10 the PDF
printing path is our preferred printing
path it's defining characteristic is the
fact that after your application is done
drawing the end result is a PDF full
file now your application can draw with
quick draw we'll take those quick draw
calls will convert them into courts
calls and courts will school out of PDF
force will have that PDF school file you
can draw directly with courts or you can
use cocos and that's drawing commands
which are implemented via court and
against pullout PDF this is our good
printing fast this is the pretty fast
we'd like you all to use well there's a
good printing path there's got to be
another printing path and that's our
laser a great legacy printing that this
was created for 10 point 0 and the
primary purpose was to ease the
transition for desktop publishing
applications of a carbon based on the
Mac os10 and it did a great job for that
to make it different from the PDF
burning path would differ about this is
we actually generate a pic spool file
this is exactly the same school files we
generated in OS 9 some ways the writer
eight so those desktop publishing
applications that were comfortable with
laserwriter eight work on Mac OS 10 it's
only available for PostScript printers
the defining characteristic ear the
reason people use this is because they
can generate poster picture comments
embedded within their quick draw and so
they only can use poster picture
comments if the Fernando phone script
printer the next point a sore one and I
wasn't sure how to get to it and so the
way I usually do a talk when there's a
sore point I try and distract you so
instead I have a story and in the
stories hidden this analogy I'm gonna
try and get this right we'll see so the
story is about two friends old baseball
friends they've been friends forever and
spruce and Fred now they've been friends
forever they spent their whole life's
going to giants games and after the
giants game going home and talking about
the giants game and they loved it Jackie
doctor decades they do this now they're
in their 80s to go to a giants game
together they go to the bar afterwards
was talking about the giants game and
Fred suddenly looks concerned looks
through school now we're getting up
there and I kind of come to grips with
the fact that we're gonna be passing
away soon and that's fine I can do that
but hi my name is baseball you know you
think there's baseball in heaven and he
was really concerned about it and
versatile i know i'm not sure he was
worried about company attorney said i'll
tell you what we'll make a pact
whoever dies first we'll go up to heaven
look around figure out what the baseball
story hasn't come back and report to the
survivor and they agree in Fred felt
better well turned out later that night
Bruce died dine and sleep went up to
heaven looked around figured out whether
there's baseball in heaven send a spirit
back to report to Fred welcome up in the
middle night Friday slicker oh my god
don't worry about I died I went to
heaven it's fine I checked on baseball
though Franco's all well thank you what
sort of facebook as well I've got good
news and I've got bad news the good news
is heaven has baseball fact they play
every day the bad news is you're
pitching next Wednesday so the bad news
is we have a compatibility test we have
this laser eyes your legacy printing
path it's available on Panther it's been
available since 10-point oh that is you
have to worry about its life expectancy
all right this is as of today deprecated
doesn't mean it's going away we ensure
binary compatibility for you it's a big
thing for us so if your application uses
this printing pass you're fine the
deprecated means we're not going to be
spending work on this we're not going to
be trying to improve this if you have a
new feature you want on this be prepared
for us to tell you you should really go
to use the PDF training path so that was
a sore point everybody get that all
right so that means we want you to use
this PDF printing path well how do you
do it well the answer is you don't have
to do anything it is our default praying
path in the system so if you just have a
normal printing application you're on
the PDF training path and you're fine
and again you can draw with quick draw
or cocoa reports to get into trouble to
use the laser I de-rate legacy path you
actually have to do work and we try and
help you get in trouble because we have
sample code that shows you how to get
into trouble very helpfully but the idea
is when your application prints or the
user print and that print dialog rolls
back up your application makes the call
into the print system says hey what are
the spool file formats I'm allowed to
print to given the printer that the user
is targeted and giving the print set
includes targeted and if the user has
printed to a raster printer or selected
preview or selected save as PDF refers
to hate the only school file available
choose PDF to good printing path but if
they said print and they're targeting a
postscript printer then we're going to
publish to you can either do the PDF
sprinting past or you can generate this
pic spool file on the laser ID rate
legacy prank
and so what you have to do to figure out
and many of you may not know in your
applications whether you're in trouble
whether you're pitching next Wednesday
is to look for this code that's at the
bottom look for this PM session set
document format generation call do a
grep for that if you see that you're on
the deck created printing path you're
going to keep working but you're not
going to be able to take advantage of
some of the important features of the
system what are those important features
in the printing system well I'm going to
spend a great many slides going over
these different benefits and because
you're going to fall into groups as
developers are going to be those of you
are on the laser iterate legacy printing
path and they're going to be those of
you who are not we're on the PDF
training fast these slides have a dual
purpose if you're using the
compatibility printing fast the legacy
printing path the slides are intended to
show you how great it would be if you
and said switch brain pass and went back
on PDF Bernita if you're already there
it's a pat on the back 12 it's also a
way to tell you some of the features
that you can get because you're already
on this good printing pathways you can
leverage courts and give the user new
features these advantages fall into six
categories talk about the unified
imaging model you get on the printing
fat there's ability to give the user a
preview from any of your applications in
a good preview save as PDF always
important user feature the do PDF
workflow feature that we made available
in Jaguar 1004 access to courts from
even your quick draw based carbon
application and the new court filter so
you can use them so the unifieds imaging
model if you are on the PDF praying that
you only need one rendering loop inside
your application that rendering loop can
draw your view of the document to screen
it can draw it when it's printing a
raster printer and it can draw it one
spring to a postscript printer this is
good if you're a developer if you're on
the labor a great legacy train pass the
reason you have that laser either it
legacy printing passes because your
application knows how to generate a view
of its document extremely well if it's
printing to a postscript printer because
that's why you're on that path is going
to generate PostScript picture comments
with dead i'm in the inside of the quick
draw but you also have to handle the PDF
printing pass be printing to a raster
printers that means you have a
suboptimal or a poor rendering path for
these raster printers so you've got two
paths and one of them's bad so we want
you if you don't impede to get pretty
path to use that thing
rendering loop the other thing is you
don't know where your PDS going to go
you think you're printing but maybe
you're not you don't know what's the
other end of the print system especially
with cups we can put all sorts of cups
filters out there that are combining TV
apps or spitting them up on some sort of
screen for display before they print and
if you're using the laser area
compatibility path nobody's gonna be
able to show the PDF because you didn't
generate a PDF you're on the PDF twenty
past you can preview in mac OS 10 all
applications get preview and i get a
great preview that PDF that you spool
opens up inside the preview application
which has lots of new features inside a
panther in particular have search
capabilities it has soft proofing so the
preview applications gain more and more
powerful if you don't know how to
generate a good PDF transition if your
document then what you're going to get
inside of preview is not going to make
the user very happy the applications
that use the laser eye turret legacy
printing path has have two solutions to
this problem user hits preview they ask
what is available spool path we tell
them only PDF they panic and they r
after their whole document and they give
that to so you get one big raster image
of what they think that should look like
user gets that in preview they zoom in
the goal that doesn't look right or they
save it may go man weird those four
megabytes come from right it was just
one text document so that's a poor
substitute for having or to having a
good PDF rendition of your document
users complain and so the second step or
second refinement and some of these
applications are doing is they're just
disabling the preview button so
throughout OSN every application has
preview except for yours because you
disabled it that's not good save as PDF
is a very similar story if you're on the
laser eight-legged see printing path
that by definition means you cannot make
a good PDF version of your document so
when the user clicks save as PDF where
do they get well they're going to get
probably that raster where you're going
to disable it we have this concept we
call digital master again this is the
idea that when the user hits save as PDF
your application was going to draw its
document the view of this document and
its full flower it's going to draw it as
fine as you can it doesn't know what the
printer is it's not down sampling for
the printer just give us everything you
know about your document so it looks as
good as possible so that when we go save
as PDF we have the best document view of
your of your document that we could
possibly get that means when save as PDF
since it we want you to draw vectors we
don't rasters we want you to draw fishes
because one of
plants will get most out of save as PDF
is that the file sizes are too big so
that's our fault some of its your
application fault we're going to talk a
little bit more later about ways you can
print efficiently or save as PDF
efficiently on the PDF print as PDF
workflow so we talked about digital
master the idea again that you can
capture this great digital master
rendition of your document from the save
as PDF button new and Jaguar send out to
dot for with PDF workflow and that was
the next step okay now that we can
capture this great PDF for most
applications it would be great if there
were some extra processing steps it
could purpose it for the web or for
printing or they could open it up in
some other application or included an
attachment and mail or anything else
that you could possibly think of to do
with it so that's what the PDF workflow
feature is that is in Jaguar and again
in Panther one of the other important
parts of it is that it hooks the
printing or the user side of printing
printing is really divided into these
two half there's a user space printing
where your application exists and it
draws its document and once we get that
PDF school file we throw it over this
wall into the print server which lives
out on its own works as a demon works as
root works in Los sorts of different
user IDs they can't have access back to
the original printing users folders and
directories so PDF workflow solutions
for that we have some great
documentation on this you should go look
at I'm gonna spend some time talking
about PDF workflow it's a pro feature
it's not enabled by default there are
these two folders that we search for
till their library PDF services and
lighted library PDF services if they
exist we change the look of the print
dialog we take that save as PDF button
and we turn it into this icon that has a
pulldown menu on it you can quibble over
the UI element all you want that's what
it does and we then enumerate all of the
items in those folders and create this
popup menu off of that icon so those are
the workflow items that a user can
select will your application will school
as PDF and will hand the PDF to these
workflow items to do whatever it wants
with it so what kind of things can you
put in there you can put in folders
that's new in cancer if you put a folder
inside of one of those directories it
creates a submenu inside of the workflow
menu so if you have a bunch of shrinkers
things to optimize pdfs you can put them
all on a folder inside of the PDF
services folder and you'll get a submenu
with just your shrinkers
in Jaguar random piano you can put a
folder alias in that folder a folder
alias when the user selects that
corresponding item the PDF has just
moved into the resolve folder alias so I
use this for web receipts i have
something my home directory is called
web receipts the folder make an alias to
it I put it in PDF services and whenever
i buy anything online and i got to say
that order number but i really want to
write it down i go print select the
workflow item say web receipts and it
just moves that file into that folder
never to be looked at again it's very
convenient you can put an application or
an application alias into this folder
when that selected by the use of the PDF
school file because you're using that
PDF print pass it handed to the
application in an open event an
application do whatever it wants well I
do here is I make an alias of mail and I
put that in PDF services when this is
selected it opens up a new composition
window inside a male and has that PDF as
an attachment all I have to do is
address it and send it off the great
ways for forming websites or pictures
that you have unix tools are also
supported you can write a unix tool we
talk about these more later so I'm skip
past that you write Apple scripts the
applescript PDF workflow is unique and
that the applescript actually execute
since I'd of the application that's
printing so if you have used or UI that
you want to present to the user but you
want to look like it's coming from out
an application you can use an apple
script to do it and the app the script
will run with inside that at a new in
cancer we have ports filters for
processing PDF files so PDF workflow PDF
workflow tool is any file that is
sitting inside that PDF services
directory that has its executable bit
set and is not an application now you
can write these and see but you don't
have to write an executable to land
units can be written in these interpret
languages that we have built in the
system Python Perl Ruby or even shell
scripts so I have to do is write one of
these scripts drop it in the right
folder and now there's this new tool
available to the user from the PDF
workflow popup menu and the tools
actually get a little bit more
information some of the other items we
talked about they get three command-line
arguments they get a title which is the
users title the document also awesome
that's on title so make sure you set
your your document name if you're
writing an application before you print
you get a the cups set of options tells
you everything that came out of that
print dialog that user might have
selected and you get
path to the pdf's law so it's exciting
about writing these tools via the PDF
workflow is it dips in real well with
another technology we announced this
week which is court scripting and for
those of you missed it the quick to
sentence descriptions court scripting is
the language bindings for courts and
also quick time and also parts of app
get that lets you write something like a
Python script and call directly into
court so you can take advantage of
courts without having to write a
compiled application so as an example
what I've written here is a PDF workflow
item a script python script that will
take that PDF that comes out of your
application and render rasterize each
page of the CMYK image and store it off
as a jiff so you know that's pretty
serious application if somebody asks you
to write that okay take PDF file and
generate tips for it I don't know how
long it would take you know it's
certainly a couple hours or the four
minutes it would take you to actually do
it with this court scripting so just to
walk through this you can see this first
slide all this code does is make sure it
has the right number of arguments so
this is a to slide example the first
slide has no content and the second
slide just want to come up there you go
so here's the real work of creating
these tiff files first thing you want to
do is open up that PDF file that was
handed in to you from the print system
so that's Fiji PDF document create with
provider now you have this PDF document
reference you know loop over all the
pages in that PDF document very simple
for loop to go through the number of
pages and on each page you're going to
figure out how big that page it because
you want to create a raster image to
hold that document you create a quartz
context that's backed by a raster buffer
this particular case we tell that we
want a CMYK raster buffer correct size
and then we tell courts to draw that PDF
page and magically we now have a
rasterized rendition of that PDF page we
pick some paths from file that we're
going to store the tip in and then again
this is like magic at least to me you
tell the context okay take your bits and
write them out at the tiff file and
you're done so you can now take this
drop it in your PDF service file and you
have this new feature for your user
we're going to give this demo but this
working and some other PDF workflows
hollenbeck's gonna come up and help me
out and show some of this so we're going
to go to demo one
so we have a keynote presentation we're
going to use as a demo here throughout
our demos today well baseball one so now
keeping with the theme and that is the
user might go to the print dialog and we
populated that PDF service file so now
we have this different look of the print
dialog and click on the workflow item
and you see convert to CMYK chips select
that your PDF is spooled out in the
background the separate processes runs
and what I've done is changed the last
line to actually open up that first page
in the preview and there it is you can
go get info and it'll tell you yes
indeed this is actually a CMYK raster
version of that thing you printed out a
keynote the colors are actually
interesting you'll notice the colors
don't match this is why we tell you
don't use device colors I really wanted
to do with CMYK demo so how to use
device CMYK but there's a great example
of why not to use device colors because
we can't match them back on the street
so that's that particular workflow tool
this other demo of workflow I want to do
is one that I've tried to other talks
I've given and I've always had internet
problems so this could be the first
successful launch of this one this is an
applescript it opens up the PDF document
in Illustrator if any of you use
illustrator illustrator has this
incredible applescript dictionary for
manipulating PDF I'd looked at that
thing I was amazed it still just amazed
me it's an incredibly useful so it opens
up an illustrator walks through all the
texts in the PDF takes the text run gets
it then uses babelfish on the internet
to get a translation for that text run
gets Spanish pulls it back and it has
illustrator to change that text run for
Spanish transition so the result is it
will convert to Spanish if we have
internet access it's kind of fun to
watch so there it is opened up an
illustrator goes there and now you're in
Spanish
and again a user can do this so you can
write these kind of scripts and provide
them for users so we're gonna try one
more i think this other demo i like
generally these workflow items take that
PDF and use it as the source they
optimize it they translate it they do
something like this it's other demos a
little different all I wanted to do
today was to show you some sexist at
WWDC 2003 but that's kind of boring so
what I did is I took the PDF and I used
it as a pattern to fill in the
background and then fill in the text as
you can see what that looks like this
one takes a little bit more processing
we're not too bad so we have a pattern
which build the whole page with that one
page from the keynote presentation it's
the background we used no capacity maybe
point2 and we drew this text and we drew
the tech using that same pattern but
with a one-point no opacity and it's
kind of cool if you look you'll see that
there's a continuous because we're using
patterns runs from the whitish areas of
the document into the letters which are
now Boulder so you don't have to use
your PDF documents as the source you can
actually use them for special effects
and I had some other cool things I was
doing with this was taking source code
and running it through this thing so you
get source code whipping through the
letter whatever you can imagine I photo
is another one so thank you alan all
right so we're gonna move back on to
some of the advantages we're done with
work flow this is a big one this is one
of the ones where people are already on
the PDF path don't have to pat
themselves on that this is one of those
advantages you get and things you can
take advantage of if you're on the PDF
or a PDF print path you can draw or you
already drawing probably a four-carbon
application with quick draw but you can
if you have new graphics or something
new feature you want to put in
application draw with course you might
want to draw with court because you want
to render a PDF document inside of your
traditional carbon application that's
pretty cool you might want to use
transparency also pretty cool and it's
an easy way for a carbon application to
start transitioning to using courts
piecemeal it's also a great way to
efficiently draw there are some things
you can draw a much more efficiently in
court when they're going to a PDF file
then you can in quick draw we're gonna
look at some of those
so first how do you mix quick throw
imports we showed this I think two years
ago first but it's incredibly simple you
have a graph port and that's what you
normally printing into or drawing to the
screen very that's the quick draw
grass-court and you make this call QD
begin CG context and what you're really
saying when you make that call is well
here's this graph where I'm done with it
when you hold on to it for a while I'm
really done with it but i'm done with it
for now give me a quartz context that i
can draw into your grand for it becomes
disabled anything drawn there doesn't
work and now you have the cg context and
you have all the cg open to you that cg
context is freshly initialized so
there's no sharing of state between that
CG context and your quick draw drawing
so you don't have to worry about any
strange interactions no pen colors none
of that and every time you call us you
get a fresh instantiation so you can
draw independent pieces of your drawing
without any crossover when you're done
drawing with quartz you call cg ncg
contacts your graph port become pot
again your cv context is no longer valid
and we go back to drawing with quick
draw again this has been available since
10.1 and we have a very nice sample it's
available on developer.apple.com flash
printing there are a couple things to be
careful us when you're mixing one of
them is that quick draw and court they
don't agree on which way is up right so
quick draw likes to have that y axis
running down to the top of the port and
quartz likes to have it running up from
the bottom left of the port so this can
be a problem you're not expecting it but
now you are no problem and it's actually
very easy to handle all you have to do
is tell court that you want to flip
things so you just have a scale back up
to the top part top left corner of your
graph port and you flip that y
coordinate and now the two-match don't
draw text because it'll be upside down
but everything else will be fine and
text is pretty easy to you can use hgf
to flip the checks scale as well so 23
magic lines and also in your mixing
courts quick draw and having some great
drawing applications and this isn't
hypothetical this isn't something boy it
would be cool if every people but he did
there are major applications that mix
courts with quick draw and do it to
generate new features and this is XL I
love this example they're charting
package is amazing it has some credible
shading and transparencies they do and I
do it with quartz even though this is a
major carven quick-draw based
application they were able to mix the
two and have this
really great feature so you can do the
student they've been doing this since
they shipped so that's access to courts
and courts with quick draw once you
start doing that you can also start
drawing more efficiently because you're
using courts rather than a quick draw in
order to explain how that works I have
to give this to sent and it's worth no
more than that overview of what a PDF
document looks like a PDF document is
made up of a set of page streams one for
each each page in the document those
page streams of the drawing commands
what it takes to render that document
but a page stream is allowed to reach
out of itself back to this object sex
objects part of the document where maybe
big parts or big images in particular
might be stored so they can be used out
of line so the drawing stream to be more
efficient so you generally get something
like this diagram where each page stream
has references into this other part of
the document into the objects part of
document if you're using quick draw and
the type of hypothetical case you have
multiple pages and both pages page
wanted two are both drawing the same
image the using quick draw you're going
to get a PDF document that looks like
this your objects portion of your PDF
document is going to have two images
identical two separate sets of bits and
each page page one is going to point to
one of those page two is going to point
together so you have this duplication
that you do not want you can get rid of
it you can get rid of this by going to
court if you use quartz quartz has a cgm
address cgm it's refs are immutable once
you make one of those and they're
incredibly easy to make you can make
them from kings or JPEGs or raster
buffers once you make one of these you
have an image rep you can draw it on any
page you want and the system knows it's
pointing to the same bit that means we
can make them point to the same set of
this the same image in that objects
portion of the document you can't do
this with quick job because of pics maps
fix macs are not immutable there's
nothing to stop you as a quick draw
application from drawing with the pixmap
with the underlying set of rafters then
kind of messing with the rafters and
then using that same fix map same corner
same handle again we don't know the bits
have changed and you don't really want
us when your school and documents
checking all your bits so we don't so if
you use quartz you can get rid of that
redundancy and you get something like
this which is exactly what you want you
have two different page streams pointing
and sharing the same image and there's
some c code up there that shows you how
you create this CD image rest from the
jpeg so you
on page one how you draw it on page two
it's very simple in fact it's so simple
you can do it with court scripting so
this is another example of a PDF
workflow I don't we're just going to
walk through it very quickly but the
idea here is it's just going to stamp
your PDF document with an image in the
bottom right corner of every page so if
you have a 20-page document you get
stand for 20 images but there's only one
image in the resulting PDF so again we
check the number of arguments we find
the PDF path in the image path so the
PDF half the document were going to
generate the stamp document the image
path is the thing we're going to stamp
the Stamper we figure out where we want
to put it and then we loop over all the
documents in the original PDF the ones
coming from your application printing we
find the bottom right corner we call
begin page in the PDF we're creating we
draw the page that's coming in to us we
draw the image and we call em page and
when this is done executing you've got a
brand new documents that is now stamp
and is efficiently done so images are
cool and images are the most common case
of redundant drawing we see in PDF and
both iPhoto and keynote both had
problems where they were not efficiently
using cgm addressed and so the resulting
PDFs were not as optimal as you might
like they fix those and now you get much
smaller PDFs out of both those
applications which is great especially
your printing contacts out of iphone and
you print the same thing 20 times you
don't want 20 times five MiG's good but
you can do the same thing with PDF
drawing so this is actually exciting
what you can do is capture set of PDF
drawing courts drawing with CG PDF
context create that's the context that
anything you draw into it we turn into a
PDF stream capture your PDF create a PDF
document from that captured PDF that's a
CG PDF create with provider and then
wherever you need that logo or that
footer for that form throughout your
document you just call CG context draw a
PDF document and it will draw at PDF
again and again but that drawing will be
shared so again that footer will only
appear once in the objects portion of
the document and again you can only do
this with course so our last advantage
is something that's new inside of
Panther its corpse filters and this is
again is the printing guys rendition of
what courts filters are if you go to the
color stank session will give you the
real answer
what I think it is it takes a PDF
document and it breaks it into three
streams they'll sell meet you there's
really four but first three I breaks it
into images everything out at PDF
documents an image goes into one stream
everything that's text goes into another
stream and everything thats vector-based
drawing goes into a third-string each of
those streams could be separately
processed by a color stick profile so
you can change the color of images or
the rendering intent of images different
than you do text different than you do
vectors the image steps with image
stream actually has the second step
which is an image processing scripts
they can do resampling compression and
then all three of those streams are
stuck back together and you generate a
PDF file so this is a way to purpose PDF
files you can imagine something that has
three different profiles in the sports
filter all those profiles convert the
colors into web safe colors the image
stream up on the top has a step we're
down samples all of your image to say
hundred DPI and it stops back into a PDF
and what that quartz filter is done it
turns your what some people will tell
you is a big PDF your digital master PDF
and its purpose fit for web view so you
can do quartz filters or you get to use
quartz filters if you print on the PDF
print that they get used when you're
printing there's a new color sync panel
on the print dialog that'll show you an
available set of quartz filters and
allow you to create your own court
filters inside of the cloche link
utility so you can print and force all
your images to go to sepia or whatever
else you can think of to create we also
use it for host-based color matching
when you print in Panther to a color
postscript laser we can do color
matching on the host which we just do
all the color matching the printer which
was great it was device independent and
I was a big proponent of it it was flow
in the printers had bugs in it and
people would complain so being a
proponent of it didn't save it so we now
have host base color matching where we
can do all the stuff on your faster cpu
and do the translations preview can also
use the courts filters save as PDF can
use quartz filters so you can just put
one in your PDF services folder select
it and you'll do whatever kind of
purposing you set up that quartz filter
to do and that was PDF
so we've got a quick demo Alan's going
to come up and help me again of soft
proofing this is new and Panther we're
going to look at soft proofing and we're
going to look a little bit at some of
the filters that are built in related to
color stick one thank you we'll go back
to keynote again recognize this document
let me get high go ahead and print and
hopefully we have selected a monochrome
printer this widget is the laser 8500
just go ahead and hit preview and here
the DNA's a mono laser it is showing the
grayscale image and here is a new check
box down here going to turn it off and
this is what you would normally get for
the preview and you just turn it off and
on again just to see exactly what you
get so what's important here with the
PDF preview is which sent over to
preview your digital master captured all
of your content but we've also set along
with it the profile for that device that
you are going to be praying to this case
the monochrome device and preview can
show it either way is it can apply that
output profile for that would represent
your printer and show you in monochrome
or it can take it off take it off and
show you what that a digital master look
like so you can use this also for color
printers to see what the gamut looks
like on your printer so come by lexus so
we're going to look at some of the color
stick filters now within the collection
panel you Cosentino look and see let's
go ahead and add the color sync filters
which will bring it to be colors ink
utility and here is our PDF and between
just select different
and it yeah it's fine i think recalled
sorry there's the black and white blue
tone I don't say that word great tone
and yeah so again what's important here
digital master everything your
application drew pipe through this
Court's filter to change what viewed on
screen or what's printed but we didn't
touch your original document thanks Alan
we're going back to slide so we'll go
back over to the five
thank you
so those were the advantages unified
imagery model your applications easy to
write because you have one rendering
loop your PDFs that come out to be
repurposed user can redirect them
between postscript around two printers
preview your users get good preview of
your applications drawing they
appreciate that save as PDF they can
capture your documents output and reuse
it send it to people via mail would have
a PDF workflow they can post process it
and purpose that PDF access to port
young Peter perhaps your applications
can do more interesting drawing and you
can use quartz filters which can be very
exciting moving on so why isn't
everybody on the PDF printing path well
there's two reasons that people
generally give me they tell me they
can't get there because their
application depends upon the ability to
import eps and the print eps file eps
capsulated postscript therefore they
need to generate PostScript therefore
they need the laser editor legacy
printing classes they can generate
poster picture comics into quick draw so
that's one the other one is their
application generates all its own
PostScript they don't want to deal with
quartz they just have a PO script
rendition and that's what they want to
print a lot of desktop publishing
applications fall into this and more and
more of the UNIX applications that are
moving over tomorrow Mac os10 fall under
this category they're used to generating
on their own post script and that's what
they want to do well supporting ApS is
easy I can handle that first complaint
with our first concern you can go to
Coco alright you don't take your carbon
application Coco but if you did there is
NS VPS image rep and that'll take care
of you in cocoa but if you want to stay
with carbon there is a call and it took
two engineers to type P MCG image create
with GPS data provider what that call
does is you give it a data provider
there's a way to give core graphics the
EPS post grip portion of the EPS and you
give it an image rep which is an image
that represents the preview portion of
your EPF in other words if we can't
render the PostScript this is what we're
going to draw it combines those two
things up into one rapper gives you back
this new composite in a dress that
composite image raft is smart when you
draw with that composite image rep the
system courts will either use the
PostScript that's wrapped up in there
the EPF or it will use the preview image
so if you go to screen say in Jaguar
it's called available Jaguar it will use
the preview to go to a rapture printer
will you
preview if you go to a postscript
printer it will use the encapsulated
postscript it's incredibly powerful you
have to do is use this and all the
sudden you have eps support and then
you've lost that one reason you gave me
the why you can't be on the PDF print at
the apple works guys lost their one
reason why they couldn't be on the path
so they've now moved I remember what
version it was a while ago but they were
one of those applications to complain
they needed for TPS so they were on the
legacy bring past they used this call
they got off another a PDF printing
application oh wait there are some other
people who use this call again this is a
microsoft application i use them because
again they're a great example of a large
carbon applications quick draw base they
had to support eps they use that call so
that they can render that will show the
preview image here on screen and when
they print this to a poster printer
you'll get the eps output so the
slightly harder cases the applications
will generate all their own PostScript
well they have two choices they can use
that laser iterate legacy printing path
and what they have to do when they do it
is take their PostScript put it in
postscript picture comments so that the
printer driver the postscript printer
driver we have will intermix it
generated PostScript as it's also
converting quick draw into postscript
with the applications generated
PostScript and that's a very complicated
convoluted lots other words I could
think of process and the only way it
works is because it worked once you fool
with your application till it works then
you stop and you're done and you can now
intermix your applications postscript
with the drivers PostScript anybody has
done this things like space hack and PS
begin dos save and flushing the
quick-draw state are not a mystery to
you and I apologize that you had to
learn all of those things it would be
better if you can generate the entire
PostScript job that's what you want to
do anyway you'd rather get the driver
out of your way but up until Panther
there's been no way to print that you
generate your old post good job how do
you get to it well we have these new job
submission api's in camp there and they
allow you to handle whole file to the
print systems they get this to the
printer for me please we can't get any
file to the printer so there actually
has to be a quarry you have to make
first p.m. printer get mimetypes you
passing the printer you want to print to
you pass from the print settings that
came out of the user's interaction with
the print dialog and you get back a set
of strings that are mime types for those
settings on this printer here are all
the mime types you can give us the file
types you can give us so you scan that
and if you find the mime type you like
postscript in the case we're talking
about
then called p.m. printer print with file
on you hand the print file in we'll take
it throw it over into the print server
and you're done so what kind of mime
types can we take the sides postscript
Vogel tools poster points versus
actually post to post script mime types
that are of interest application
postscript this is what we call nan
finished PostScript if you have fasted
something with mime type application
PostScript we will take the feature so
the print settings of the user ask for
we will generate PostScript features and
will interject them into your PostScript
be a DSC comments at the beginning the
document so this is the way if you don't
want to deal with feature code but you
want to generate all your own PostScript
rendering you can use that line type if
you really don't want us involved use
applications n cups PostScript that's
called raw PostScript or finished
PostScript you give that to us and it
just goes right to the postscript
printer we're done you can also have
some PDF if you have a PDF condition to
document give it to us and we'll get it
to the printer image types gifts JPEG
TIFF lots of different text types
playing RTF even HTML I think staff kit
and cups raw cups raw is really for the
printer vendors but what cups Ross says
is don't process file at all just send
it to the printer it's usually going to
be printer specific escape codes that
you want to send down to have the
printer to do something specific and
there are lots more if you actually make
that call you'll get a list about 20
plus line types so who would use this
will preview is actually one of the
clients on Panther for this as i
mentioned preview in Panther is enhanced
right now when you click preview the PDF
documents pools it opens up in preview
there it is previous got the PDF file
you just generated on Jaguar when you
tell preview to print what does it do
well it dutifully uses courts have
sports to render that PDF document into
a conducts which will create PDF so you
end up going PDF to courts calls to PDF
and that's why when you print from a
print preview in preview on Jaguar your
hundred page document you get to watch
it spool as it goes through that
conversion for each page in Panther
doesn't do that anymore it's got this
file so just ask this hey can I get PDF
to this printer we always say yes for
PDF and goes okay here's the file and
the user sees no spoiling it's
instantaneous and it's great they're
also going to do it for PDF files they
don't do that in the feed right now
flexpa Panther you'll be able to do open
up a PDF file in preview when you say
print the file gets copied over the
print server and that's all so the big
advantages full timing from printing and
it users are very happy that's a
dramatic portion of printing times or
your schooling times alright so Mac os10
has this PDF page graphic system we
really want you to use PDF printout so
you can take advantage of it if you
can't we have the job submission api's
they're very cool we hope they're going
to let you get off of that legacy
printing fast and if they don't tell us
why they don't we'll add more API we'll
do what we can to get you off of that
legacy print that once you're off
especially once you're on the PDF print
path you can grow as the OS growth
applications that use PDF printing
passes pamphlet comes out where at least
Jaguar got PDF workflow with pants with
Panthers they get courts filters court
scripting and more stuff in the future
as we enhance courts and we enhance the
PDF part of the system you get that for
free so hopefully that's a good reason
to be over there all right so we're
pdf.pdf days system we're very proud of
our PDF support but there are some
legacy formats and it's actually kind of
nice to be up here and call post
crippled legacy formats but that's why
we view it and it would be great if we
had some support for that legacy format
in endless OS we're great if you could
take a render dps and actually show the
vector rendition of that rather than
that crummy preview that comes with the
eps it would be great if you could print
a poster file onto a raster printer you
know take that hundred-dollar raster
printer plug it in why isn't it a
postscript winter and it would be good
if you were great if you could take a
postscript file and convert it to PDF so
you could use the rest of the Mac os10
to handle and process that PDF and you
can't in Panther and this is incredibly
exciting we have this Panther PostScript
converter and it's a postscript level 23
interpreter and it converts whole script
files to PDF it does not rasterize
PostScript it is not a postscript brick
it's a post group converter it does the
best job at can converting your post
script directly in the PDF and that's it
but we do have something in the system
that can rasterize PDF we have courts so
you could imagine writing something that
took a postscript file ran it through
this post code converter that's now in
cancer get the PDF file use that
resulting PDF file feed it to courts
courts generate the raster just like we
saw earlier when we were generating
those tips raster files from PDF so you
could write this and who's actually core
graphics API to call this a postscript
to PDF converter but I really wanted to
show you guys how you could write your
own PostScript Britt and I really wanted
to do in one slide but I couldn't find a
guilt free font to use so I'm going to
give you the to slide PostScript
interpreter on the first slide doesn't
do a whole lot this is a little tool
called PS trip to take the postscript
file and take the fifth base metric
spaces the base name that we're going to
create for you file so if you call it
out we're going to create how I want is
now talk to Jeff so the first thing you
do is you take that PS file and you
create this data provider and that's
what courts pro graphics is going to
suck on to get the PostScript out of the
file create a PDF consumer that's where
it's going to write the PDF that it's
going to get as a result of converting
we created it converter instance and we
pass it the two things here's the PS
provider to get the post crook here's
the consumer to write the PDF call it
it'll tell you to succeed or not it
might fail right there might be a
postscript there might not be a
postscript file it can fail but if it
succeeds we've got a PDF rendition of
that postscript file and now all we have
to do is get to bit and we have the
exact same code we had earlier today to
go to tip loop over the pages create a
bitmap context for each one of those
pages in the PDF draw it and then tell
that context to write out its fits into
test so there's your two slides dozen
line in Python interpreted PostScript
interpreter which I thought was pretty
exciting
but you might not want to ride your own
post-trip interpreter every day although
it is easy we have the converter
integrated into the system as well we I
mentioned earlier cocos eps image rep
that can show for coco applications eps
file will it now with the converter will
show the vector rendition it'll actually
convert that EPS file into PDF and I'll
show that PDF rendition so now Coco
applications can have this incredible
view of your eps documents PostScript
jobs can be printed to raster printers
we have this great printer server in the
system and in Panther it can take in
jobs over IP p ltd or SMB there are lots
of ways to get jobs into the system and
now that we have a poster converter and
then a PDF of rasterizer so essentially
can put those two things together and
get from quick or from PostScript all
the way to raster for your master
printer schools can set up a lab can put
it in there hundred-dollar photo printer
attached it to a client Mac os10 Panther
system share it and print to it from
units Windows Mac OS 9 system send
PostScript jobs and will rip it and send
the resulting bits to your Q raster
printer so it's great for schools great
for printer vendors right you you don't
have to go license or rip any more you
shouldn't have to issue or should be
good enough and of course the jobs
Commission aight guys if you have a
raster printer with this in the system
you ask the raster printer will say yes
I take quote script you pass in
postscript and we'll get it to the
printer for you so Alan back one more
time we're going to look at some of the
places where this is integrated in the
system coco eps support which i
mentioned and then opening up some
documents here we go
first of all let's first take in eps
document and we'll just drag it on to
preview and it's going to quickly
generate PDF let's go ahead and copy
this PDF and let's bring up our favorite
case you get bat and just go ahead and
paste it in see it is a true PDF image
you can grow it see rotated work is
around like this then you can even where
is it showing Specter there do the
opacity and let's let's get it correct
there we go so it is a true true PDF
image inside keynote so an application
that is absolutely nothing about eps can
take the results of an eps composite it
rotate it deal with it as if it were and
it is a PDF representation that graphic
that's pretty good but we also have
postscript support this is a PS file
let's just stop on the text edit see yes
it is a true that Bank es adobe and we
will just drop that on Dupree you again
and then convert it
point
try it one more
I think if we did so good we were doing
so good that's right so I'll talk you
through that so what woulda happened
preview got wedge there a little bit of
you drag that PostScript document or you
double-click it it converts the whole
thing in the PD app and preview can show
you that PDF now PDF has some great new
features in it you can search a PDF
document you can actually then result it
search a postscript document because
it's converted into PDF and now the
search capabilities when preview is
available preview lets you select text
and copy and paste out a preview so
again you take your postscript file
convert it into PDF bring it into
preview and copy and paste text out of
it like we're still wedged that just go
on that's alright we'll go back to the
slides and you all have your own Panther
so you can try this at home and reboot
when it gets stuck alright so that is
the PDF sermon we also have some new AP
is that are in the system this is by
popular request there this new p MK / AP
i-- we've had a PM page formatted
instance for a while objects for a while
that's the result the PM page format of
page setup and that dialogue goes away
the CM page format objects that captures
the paper that was selected the targeted
printer the scale and the orientation
p.m. paper is part of that PM page
format and it's going to capture just
the physical characteristics of the
paper that that was picked so it's just
the physical paper size and it's just
the margins there's some attributes that
you can get again the idea to name the
height the width and you can get in this
is the important part to list of papers
that are supported by a printer if you
really want to know what a particular
printer supports what the real physical
paper sizes are p.m. printer get paper
list what people really want to do they
want to end up creates their own page
format for whatever their crazy paper
sizes so the steps are create yourself a
PM paper to represent the physical
dimensions and then from that you can
create a page format so PM paper create
lets you create your 12 inch by two mile
paper size talk to you
pulse is inside api's PPD api's again
this is only for specific class of
applications but we're installers in
fact oh we now have ways for you to get
the installed set of PPD's once you get
the installed set of PPD's and you find
one you like you can ask for one that's
localized appropriately for the current
user and most of our PPD's are
compressed we zip them and you don't
have to worry about that all you do is
call p.m. copy PPD data will unzip it if
we need to or we'll just give you the
raw data that's available so these three
api's will allow you to do things with
PPD's just like we do cups update so
that whole part of the talk was the part
about the left hand side of this diagram
it was the user space part of printing
there's the whole right side which is
what we changed last year it's the cups
d serves the print server where your
documents go and then start running in
with all these different crazy user IDs
the demon running as root these filters
running is this LP user and then your
backends ringing again is root that's
where your jobs go when they've left
your user application so what's going on
with cups well for cups in Jaguar we
shipped cups 1.1 15 and over the last
year as we were doing Jaguar updates
we've moved back important security
fixes and important bug fixes from the
cups main line which was going about 16
17 18 back onto our dock 15 days a lot
of people didn't understand this and I'm
complaining that we were stagnating our
cupboard space it wasn't true we just
had a stable base we liked about 15 base
and we were putting important bug fixes
on top of it and because our cup space
is available in Darwin and because it's
live every day there was no reason for
people to get confused you can go there
any given day and see what we checked in
any given day we went to cups to be
incredibly transparent to be incredibly
open for our developers and we are and
people should feel comfortable going
there and seeing what we're doing you
might have gotten some early hence
without facts and there's some other
interesting things you might see as we
check things in and out Panther is
moving away from that dot 15-day moving
up to 1 dot 119 there you go there's
some people who are not happy with just
our bug fixes but that's okay so all the
way up to 1 dot why 19 which is the
latest cups right now if there's a1 dot
one dot 20 and the right time frame I
could see us possibly going to that we
pick up the new PPD support the PPD
parser and cups is much more strict
good for the better or worse other stack
support so we're building some of our
facts support on top of the custom
stacks sport this TV CP support so we
can do some better binary printing over
different channels and there's some
denial of service security fixes we
picked up almost all of the security
fixes that were cups related during the
Jaguar time frame except for this final
batches denial service which we're going
to pick up for Panther got this one
provide fixes we've been live with our
cups repository for over a year now and
I'd had one person one developer send us
a bug fix and it was a great bug fix he
found a real bug in the demon provided
to fix we took it we set it back to the
main line it was great and it'd be great
for more especially with our printer
vendors we're looking in there and got
used to go in there to find some answers
because it's all there in fact they get
a lot of questions ask me some nuances
of the way the demon works and a general
answer is well you know I don't know
sorry but you know there's a source go
look and actually had one developer tell
me I'll yeah the typical open-source
answer kind of blew it off but now
there's source code you'll figure out
how it works it's good so what are we
doing with kept so we've got new UI to
support some of the cuffs features cups
is very powerful we only bring out
certain features but we have sm d
printing support we're bringing out UI
for that most of our users who wanted
and figured out how to do it with Jaguar
that was great we have direct socket and
I PP printing we have you I to create
printers based on those we have printer
pools this is one of my favorites it's
definitely an H case but a printer pool
allows you to take a set of print queues
find them up into one virtual queue and
his jobs come into that Q it round
robins them to the first available
printer I particularly like this because
I was Sebold a year and a half ago maybe
and a professional photographer came up
to me and say hey you know I really like
cuts like what you've done I've got
these eight photo printers they're all
identical and my job depends on printing
as fast as i can to these printers and
so here's his answers coming in Panther
he'll be able to sprint to this virtual
pool and we'll find the first available
printer and yet I all eight of his
printers going at the exact same time
it's a very cool feature I meant PVC p
will have you I to enable that we're
adding a lot of new support for cups
dates printer drivers as I mentioned
earlier in the talk we have two printer
driver architectures we have the cup
space printer drivers and we have the
older tioga base printer drivers we're
working to get the tub space printer
driver so they have the same if not more
set of fee
that are available in tioga and
primarily we're doing that by adding
some new support for some new PPD
keywords here for them they allow a cub
Speights printer driver to specify the
color stink profile that should color
should be converted to before it's
handed to it what's really great about
this particular implementation that you
can provide CMYK profile you can say
here's my printer driver and I really
want colors in the CMYK space and if the
application draws in CMYK we will get
the CMYK colors all the way from the
application to the printer without going
through any RGB not whole without any of
these funny conversions its CMYK all the
way to CMYK if that's what the
application started with we have a new
link in the PPD's for print dialog
extensions so a cub space printer driver
can now have its own UI and the print
dialog it can link to a printer utility
so the user in the printer setup utility
can click on a printer and say hey
launch the utility and we'll know what
utility you want and it can have an icon
you're not a printer driver ki have an
icon going forward we're going to be
focused on cups dates printer drivers
we're going to support the tioga days
printer drivers but that's not our focus
we're going to be putting all our effort
into the cup stuff we're going to be
making that more and more powerful so if
you have a type of this printer driver
we're not going to leave you behind
we're not going to purposely break you
but we want you on that thai Yoga for
any path especially for some or the cup
spring path especially for some of your
new drivers if there's something there
something you do with the tiger printer
driver that you can't do with the cups
printer drivers please let us know and
we'll work to fix that there are a
couple open-source printer projects that
have been great for us over the last
year Kim print and HP ijs or two of them
open source projects generally because
the vendors do a good job supporting
their most current models are important
for some of the legacy printers but
because the cup space printer drivers
they also allow the user access to some
features that are only available for
cups printer drivers most of the printer
drivers available from the major vendors
are the older type o dates printer
drivers GIMP print is in Panther this
was a big deal of a huge thing that go
out to the GIMP print team Robert
Kravitz you organizes that team and runs
it it's an incredibly vibrant team
to have a sourceforge home lots of bug
reports go in there they address them
incredibly quickly in fact if any bugs
it's stuck it's because they usually
assigned to me their team is great
there's also been this incredible
support for the Mac os10 version the
Kemp print which means a great installer
d installer documentation and that's all
been done by Tyler blessing who's
favored us all this week with being a
VIP for us and coming to the conference
you see him the hallway make sure you
thank them by himself he's brought
support for over 500 printers to Mac
os10 that's one man so we had printing
in 2002 changed the whole print system
2003 were just evolving what are we
going to be looking forward in 2004
we're going to keep our focus on PDF
we're going to bring more and more new
features more and more optimizations to
that PDF praying path if you want new
features please get on that path please
let us know what great features you'd
like out of PDF file size is one we
always hear but if you have other things
please let us now cups 1.2 that's still
out there on the horizon when it's
available we're going to be moving to
that except one point to offer some
important accounting features some
back-end bi-directional communications
features it's going to be X credibly
exciting there are well there's a source
tree you go out there and see what's
already been done and follow it and
we're going to be focusing on cups based
drivers so that's going to be 2004 when
I come back for more information we
actually have a lot of printing
documentation give you a quick overview
of it we have the overview of the
printing system it's a little dated but
most of what's in there is true we have
separate documents for supporting
printing for carbon and cocoa we have
documentation for writing print dialog
you I references for the carbon printing
and for writing plugins descriptions of
how we use postcard printer description
files so if you wonder how we use PPD's
there's a document that explains it how
to create presets for iphoto how to use
the workflow feature and how to write
new workflow items there's the cup
software programming manual if you want
to know how cups of self works below us
and then there's our developer site
developer apple com flash printing and
there's just a lot of documentation off
of that so
please go to these reference take to
find a lot of interesting documentation
then we have some good sample code as
well sample codes will show you how to
use sheets that's always a great touch
how to mix ports with your carbon
quick-draw application and a PD project
how to write a print dialog extension so
please go look at those Travis clinical
come up and talk you through the roadmap
actually what I do is since those are
some pretty long URLs you only really
have one day obsessions I'll skip to
that and then I'll go back to the URLs
or we can be in the Q&A so you have time
to copy them down so pretty much left
with is Friday sessions which a lot of
them are going to be for example court
services which relates to essentially
managing displays on Mac OS 10 and
that's Friday morning then we have one
more OpenGL session this one hosted by a
TI who is our hardware partner who's
going to be showing us all the latest
visual effects you can accomplish using
their hardware and programmability we
also have a session on macros and
accessibility this would be an
interesting session if you want to
ensure that users with disability can
successfully use your software the Nazi
we have the feedback forum where you can
feel free to come and give us feedback
on the session and also you know
questions issues you have a Mac os10
printing in general that we can often
incorporate into our planning for the
next major release of Mac OS 10 so let
me thought I'd invite the printing team
so we can get our Q&A going
you